now Israel's foreign minister has
accused turkey of blocking Israeli
imports and exports Israel cat said the
action by Turkish president Reb Ty
erdogan is breaking trade agreements he
posted a statement on the social media
Network X saying this is how a dictator
behaves disregarding the interests of
the Turkish people and businessmen and
ignoring international trade agreements
Mr Katz also said he'd instructed
officials to create alternatives to
trade with turkey
let's get more from our correspondent
Darian Jones in Istanbul welcome Darian
so um has this been has this cessation
of trade and imports into turkey has
that been confirmed and what else do we
know about
this well as of year this story has come
from uh the Bloomberg News Agency citing
Turkish officials who says as of today
Thursday all imports and exports to
Israel have ended now um there hasn't
been any confirmation from anyone
including the Turkish president Reb T
erdogan but the Israelis have appeared
to confirmed this uh and have strongly
condemned uh the action now turkey uh
has maintained trade relations with
Israel uh in spite of the very fiery
rhetoric coming from Turkish president
erdan who has routinely condemned Israel
but at the same time behind the scenes
trade was largely unaffected in in fact
in 2023 bilateral trade accounted for
around $6.8 billion of which Turkish
exports accounted for 5.1 and that was
very contentious among the opposition
who accus third one of double standards
particularly as it's understood that
much of the exports from Turkey were
very sensitive including aviation fuel
steel which critics of erdan said were
being used for the Israeli War Machine
now after the big setback in March local
elections which erdan saw many of his
traditional supporters abandoning him
especially the religious voters eran's
government announced that 54 items were
banned from being exported to Israel
including aviation fuel now we
understand that the uh erdan has gone a
step further and has now banned all
exports to Israel although erdan himself
hasn't said anything of yet and he
released the news through an
international news agency rather than
domestically which is Raising questions
possibly erdoan wants to give him some
wiggle room of possibly stepping back in
the near future this is likely to be a
popular move uh Darian
well undoubtedly among the his religious
voters this will be very much welcomed
in fact we've seen numerous protest
where you've seen rarely secular and
religious people on the streets
condemning trade with Israel this Israel
war against Gaza has crossed Turkish
political boundaries there is UN
unification in support of uh of Gaza
against Israel and so erdan stance was
under a lot of pressure to tighten up
his stance against Israel now it has to
be said this move is unprecedented even
in 2010 when Israeli Security Forces
killed 10 Turkish citizens who were on a
boat trying to deliver Aid to Gaza
turkey while suspending much of its
diplomatic relations trade continued
unaffected and in many ways bilateral
trade is many ways seen as the glue that
holds the two countries relations
together at times of high tension if
Turkey is going ahead with a cessation
of all trade this will lead to Major
long-term effects on the relations with
Israel and many analyst Israel have
already said that this could cause irrep
damage a key thing though will be
whether oil exports from aaban to Israel
will continue to flow because much of
that goes through Turkish Port of Jan
and Israel is one of the major importers
from aaban of oil that will be a key
concern of Israel whether that oil will
continue flowing and will also be an
indication of how serious turkey on
applying pressure on Israel okay thanks
for that Darian Darian Jones in Istanbul